content/Reading_List_2.md, before:

title: Reading Log
date: 2017-4-4
category: misc


###The Stranger - Albert Camus
A short artsy novel, I read Matthew Ward's 1989 translation.
The book is stylistically interesting; it consists of lots of short, descriptive sentences from a first person narrator who doesn't inspire sympathy.
It's well crafted, and provides fuel for thinking.

The copy I read was littered with marginal notes from a past reader who was fixated on the narrator's use of color to describe things.
I don't think color itself is a significant theme of the novel, I think these descriptions were simply an example of the narrator's way of perceiving objects, people and events without imposing meaning on them.

The quick read is worthwhile, and I might read this again one day.

###The Wonderful Wizard of Oz - L. Frank Baum
A simple children's book published in 1900.
I think this book is more interesting for its historical context than its content.
In the brief preface the author explains that the story is like a fairy tale, but without moralizing or scary parts (such as children being eaten by witches).
His reasoning is that modern children get moral education in other ways, and that the scary part of traditional fairy tales serve only to enforce the moral message.
That's reasonable, and the novel is an excellent example of the evolution of children's literature, but to this contemporary, adult reader the story was pretty dull.

The book is whimsical and provides imagination fuel but there isn't much else to it.
The primary conflict of the book is that Dorothy back home to Kansas.
This conflict is the only one that isn't introduced and resolved in the span of a few pages.
Every other event and mishap of Dorothy's journey is introduced and then resolved in a few minutes of reading.
If the story does have a moral it is that the fear of difficulties might be more difficult than the difficulties themselves.

I had heard that this story was a sophisticated political commentary embedded in a seemingly simple story, like Animal Farm.
This is not true.
The simple construction of the story makes it easy to impose some overarching meaning on the story but there is no intrinsic allegory, any such meaning comes from the commentator and not the  author.
And I think that this is the point of the story, it provides a jumping off point for the reader's own imaginings by having very little substance of its own.

I don't expect to read this again myself, but I would recommend it to young children.

Commit message:

add on to Reading List 2 draft

content/Reading_List_2.md, after:

title: Reading Log
date: 2017-4-4
category: misc


###The Stranger - Albert Camus
A short artsy novel, I read Matthew Ward's 1989 translation.
The book is stylistically interesting; it consists of lots of short, descriptive sentences from a first person narrator who doesn't inspire sympathy.
It's well crafted, and provides fuel for thinking.

The copy I read was littered with marginal notes from a past reader who was fixated on the narrator's use of color to describe things.
I don't think color itself is a significant theme of the novel, I think these descriptions were simply an example of the narrator's way of perceiving objects, people and events without imposing meaning on them.

The quick read is worthwhile, and I might read this again one day.

###The Wonderful Wizard of Oz - L. Frank Baum
A simple children's book published in 1900.
I think this book is more interesting for its historical context than its content.
In the brief preface the author explains that the story is like a fairy tale, but without moralizing or scary parts (such as children being eaten by witches).
His reasoning is that modern children get moral education in other ways, and that the scary part of traditional fairy tales serve only to enforce the moral message.
That's reasonable, and the novel is an excellent example of the evolution of children's literature, but to this contemporary, adult reader the story was pretty dull.

The book is whimsical and provides imagination fuel but there isn't much else to it.
The primary conflict of the book is that Dorothy back home to Kansas.
This conflict is the only one that isn't introduced and resolved in the span of a few pages.
Every other event and mishap of Dorothy's journey is introduced and then resolved in a few minutes of reading.
If the story does have a moral it is that the fear of difficulties might be more difficult than the difficulties themselves.

I had heard that this story was a sophisticated political commentary embedded in a seemingly simple story, like Animal Farm.
This is not true.
The simple construction of the story makes it easy to impose some overarching meaning on the story but there is no intrinsic allegory, any such meaning comes from the commentator and not the  author.
And I think that this is the point of the story, it provides a jumping off point for the reader's own imaginings by having very little substance of its own.

I don't expect to read this again myself, but I can imaging reading it to a child maybe.


##Death of a Salesman - Arthur Miller
This is very good.
I don't read many plays which made this interesting, and maybe a bit confusing.
The action alternates between real time and the main character's (Willy Loman) emotional reminisces.
I lost track of who was who and when was now a few times and had to reread some passages to get things straight.
I'm not sure if my confusion was caused by the complicated narrative structure or my unfamiliarity with reading plays.

Like the Wizard of Oz, this story is interesting in part because it's a window into when it was written.
Specific details of the story reflect the time period, but I think many of the play's themes are timeless.
Self sabotage, self deception, unrealistic aspirations, and rosy assessments of self and others will probably always be part of the human experience.

I wonder if marital infidelity also belongs in that list.
Probably :)
